# Chapter_1. Brief History
  * ## Definition:
    * Calculus, originally called infinitesimal calculus, is a mathematical discipline focused on limits, continuity, derivatives, integrals, and infinite series. 
  * ## Before Calculus
    * Before Calculus even existed, people deal with infinite problems with **Method of Exhaustion** which is basically using the idea of **convergent infinite sequence**. The classic issue is finding the area of a circle by Archimedes. Archimedes used the Method of Exhaustion to approximate the area of a circle by inscribing and circumscribing polygons with an increasing number of sides within the circle. By calculating the area of these polygons, Archimedes was able to create upper and lower bounds for the area of the circle. As the number of sides of the polygons increased, these bounds converged to the exact area, ultimately leading him to deduce that the area of a circle is $\pir^{2}$.
    * In Renaissance, John Wallis studied a lot of infinite sequences, including the famous **Wallis Product** $\prod_{n=1}^{\infty} \frac{4n^2}{4n^2 - 1} = \frac{\pi}{2}$. Wallis produced a method to sum infinitesimal quantities and determine the area enclosed by curves 
  * How Calculus created?
    * One thing to keep in mind is that Calculus is nothing more than an updated version of the Method of Exhuastion, but now it specifically deal with **Functions**. People have played algebra, geometry, and arithmetic for a long time. In 17th centuries, science was born and started to join the game. Many math problems were being researched again, like finding area of a shape, finding the length of curve or volume of some solid body. Most of them were written in algebraic expressions and equations. So a problem may like this in that time: How do we computer the area under a unit circle curve which is express as $\sqrt{1-x^2}$ under first quadrant of cartesian coordinates? We can use the Method of Exhaustion, take n number of small rectangles under the curve, and when n increases the more accurate the area we computer.   The term "Function" is created by Lebniz in 1694
